---
Title: As We May Think and COVID-19- Devlog Week 10
Date: 2020-03-20
---

This week we received the shocking and unprecedented news that all classes were being moved online as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. All events were also canceled or postponed for the foreseeable future. This means that the Heritage Symposium conference I was organizing in April has been pushed back until September. For this course, that means that the Heritage Jam is canceled and the Museum of History is also closed until further notice which means my group won’t be able to make another trip to the museum. I thought this was a good time to check out the article “As We May Think” by Vannevar Bush as recommended by Professor Graham. Written at the end of World War II, I think right now is an interesting time to reflect on this era since we are facing our own kind of war with the coronavirus. Some are even calling this time this generation’s great war. 

Bush conceives of a machine he calls the “memex” which has the ability to store an individual’s books, records, and communications which can then be consulted easily. “Books of all sorts, pictures, current periodicals, newspapers, are thus obtained and dropped into place,” he writes.  With this machine, Bush is proposing a sort of collective memory where memories, knowledge and information can be easily transferred and shared. During our current global pandemic, we are seeing unprecedented levels of collaboration and information sharing as the world’s scientist are working together to understand the virus, implement effective tests and discover a vaccine. With our advanced levels of technology, humans have never before been so well equipped to deal with a pandemic like this. At the same time, a threat like COVID-19 shows just how fragile all of our trade networks and systems really are. 

Bush also praised the power of science and cooperation, saying: Science has provided the swiftest communication between individuals; it has provided a record of ideas and has enabled man to manipulate and to make extracts from that record so that knowledge evolves and endures throughout the life of a race rather than that of an individual. I think we can truly appreciate the gravity of a statement like this during these trying times. I only wonder how Bush would react if he could see how much technology has advanced in the last half century since he passed away and how it is being used for good not evil (at least in this case). 
