---
Date: 2020-03-15
Title: Metadata, Open Data, and Website Updates- Devlog Week 9
Tags: Metadata, paradata, linked open data
---
+ This week in class we discussed metadata and paradata. Jessica gave a comprehensive presentation on the different types and uses of metadata. What really stuck with me after our class was our discussion of Carleton, and other universities, using students data (metadata) to better understand us without our knowledge. This is all veiled under the idea that it’s for the students benefit but it raises a lot of ethical concerns on privacy and data usage. 

+ The next part of our class discussed linked open data. Linked open data believes in the added value of sharing data resources within the heritage (GLAM) sector. The reading by Oomen et al. describes how linked open data has the ability to link separate but related domains across different websites and organizations. Stepping away from the technical aspect of things, I think the concept of linked open data embodies a universal principle that is found in cultural heritage organizations like UNESCO and ICOMOS. The concept of heritage can be both local or global, and used for political and economic purposes. Much in the same way organizations like UNESCO believe that cultural heritage sites belong to everyone (not just the countries where they are situated), linked open data believes in the sharing of content and data across multiple domains. This would go against those who believe in the private control of heritage where only the possessor has rights to access it. In our globalized world, information has the means to travel in so many different ways and linked open data allows for the dissemination of this data to multiple parties. 

+ This week I also continued to update my website. I’m having a lot of fun playing around with it! First, I updated my contact info. I kept getting an error message when I tried to include my email. I tried multiple different things but still couldn’t get it to work. So I have my email next to the phone icon since I don’t want to include my phone number on the website. Next, I updated my location to be Dunton Tower where my office is located and I changed the Google Maps by inputting the coordinates of the map following Github’s instructions. I also removed the links to Twitter, Skype, and Telegram and removed recent publications and upcoming talks section by using “#” to hide content. I think this has created a much cleaner look for my website. 

