---
Title: The Unglamarous Side to Digital Informatics-Devlog 5
Date: 2020-02-08
Tags:
- Science and Tech
- Card Catalogue
- Tropy
---

+ Now that we have finished our museum visits, I have thought about what themes connect the three museums. Our guide (I forget his name) made a comment about how the Halifax survey marker helps us understand our connection to the land and I thought this was a powerful way to think about how all three museums are united. As national museums, all three institutions tell us how Canadians understand our connection to the place we call home, whether through its history, nature, or technology. I wonder how this connection to the land changes when we incorporate digital and web-based information systems into their collections. Does it strengthen or lessen this connection? I’ll have to think about it. It’s too bad we didn’t get the opportunity to explore the exhibits at the Science and Tech Museum. I will definitely have to make a trip back there!

+ Also this week, Marvin, Callum, Professor Graham, and I went to the Museum of History to start making sense of the Fort Frontenac archaeological collection. We were met with about one dozen boxes in the library’s reading room. These boxes were transferred to the Museum of History after the Cataraqui Archaeological Research Foundation permanently closed and not much has been done with them since their arrival to the museum. We began by examining the boxes of card catalogs, which contain thousands of cards with information about an artefacts ID number, location, description, and in some cases a hand-drawn picture of the item on the back of the card. 

+ As a group, we decided that the best course of action was to use our phones and start taking photos of the cards, respecting the order we found them in the box, as an initial step to “lift” the information from its paper files. We can then upload these photos on our computers so that we can input the metadata into Tropy. Over the course of three hours, I took over 400 photos of index cards. Through this process I experienced the very unglamorous work of digital informatics. Doing the same monotonous task for so long at first felt futile, but then I came to appreciate that this is a necessary first step in a long process. Somebody has to do it! Our group has plans to meet next week to start inputting this data into Tropy. As I have not used Tropy yet, I’m not sure what to expect but I am excited to try it. 
