---
Date: 2020-03-07
Title: Universal Metadata-Devlog Week 8
---

+ This week we gained a new group member. Dimitri joined our group and volunteered to take the lead on setting up the API, which is very generous of him. 

+ We had a group meeting to decide how we will combine all of our information on Tropy to create one file. Ultimately we decided that the simplest thing to do was to let one person create one Tropy and organize all of the metadata on their own. This means that setting up Tropy on my computer was not actually necessary but I know that only with hindsight. Callum volunteered to take the lead on this as he was confident it wouldn’t take that long. I uploaded all of my photos to a Google Drive and sent that to Callum. 

+ As a group we looked at all of our cards to see what similarities and differences we had. We agreed as a group on what universal metadata we are using. I have created this table to show what we decided on (and also to try making a table with github). 

|      Metadata    |
|---------|--------|
| Borden #     | Collection #   |
| Conserved Status     | Status Inventory    |
| Date Collected  | Date Catalogued  |
| Item Name | Material |
| Condition | Marks

+ There is some information that we still don’t understand. We are all stumped by what CONS: NY means. We thought maybe it means Conservation: No/Yes because sometimes the N or Y is circled but that doesn’t make any sense. There isn’t a common format between all the cards.

+ We also agreed that we won’t have any use for the hand drawings that are on the back of most cards. This information was helpful for us at the beginning but has no use for our API. It is still useful to have the photos of the drawings for reference and in case they could be used in the future.  
