---
title: "Devlog 2"
date: 2020-01-23
---

This week’s focus on collectors and collecting addressed a number of ethical and legal issues we will come across in this course. Of the readings, I thought Nathan Sentance’s blog on Western vs. Indigenous collecting practices was particularly well written and provided a good reminder that the museums we will be dealing with in this course (History, Science and Tech, and Nature), as well as most museums in Canada, were born out of Europe’s “cabinet of curiosities” and reflects Western understandings of preservation. Sentance discusses how most of First Nations cultural heritage in archives and museums is being preserved unnaturally behind glass or in storage and how this type of preservation disregards how cultural heritage contributes to living cultures through their use and the memory embedded in them. This article immediately reminded me of the famous case of the Glenbow Museum in Calgary and their return of sacred medicine bundles to the Blackfoot Confederacy in the 1990s. As Sentance made clear, Indigenous communities rely on some cultural artefacts to perform certain ceremonies and rituals which contribute to their living heritage. Understanding that these medicine bundles could not perform their intended function in the museum, the Glenbow and Blackfoot community collaborated together to allow some of these bundles to be de-accessioned and return to Blackfoot communities in Alberta where they have contributed to a greater interest in traditional ceremonies in the community. For more information on this case, Gerald Conaty’s book provides an excellent overview (full citation below).

Indigenous cultural heritage as it relates to digital forms of preservation has been a focus point among the GLAM community in recent years as digitization has become synonymous with preservation. This type of documentation attempts to ensure that Indigenous forms of expression do not disappear and can be accessed by future generations. However, digitization also presents a number of ethical concerns as it relates to intellectual property rights for Indigenous people in Canada. Creating greater access to Indigenous heritage through Western forms of preservation (digitization) raises questions about whose heritage it is we are trying to preserve and who it is being collected for. As Sentance says, for museums to say they are “collecting for everyone” often disregards Indigenous voices in this inclusion as many face structural issues that impede them from accessing their own heritage. These are all issues that I will keep with me as I navigate the rest of this course. I have included two other sources on the issue that I have found useful. 

Conaty, Gerald Thomas (2015). We Are Coming Home: Repatriation and the Restoration of Blackfoot Cultural Confidence. AU Press.

Vezina, B. (2016). Cultural Institutions and the Documentation of Indigenous Cultural Heritage: Intellectual Property Issues. Indigenous notions of ownership and libraries, archives and museums, 166(01),

Siobhan Senier (2014) Digitizing Indigenous History: Trends and Challenges, Journal of Victorian Culture, (19)3, 396-402
