---
Title: Getting Started with Tropy: Devlog Weeks 6 and 7
Date: 2020-02-29
Tags:
- Tropy
- Metadata
- Devlog
---

+ I installed Tropy on my computer so I could then input my photos from my iPhone into Tropy to then add the metadata. Before importing the 500 photos from my phone, I had to free up space on my computer because I had less than 1GB left.

+ I spent about 4 hours trying to delete unnecessary files from my very old 120GB Macbook Air but moving photos and documents from my computer to a hard drive   was not making enough of a dent. The “Other” section was taking up over 100GB of space and I had no idea what that stuff was. After doing some careful research, I downloaded a program called OmniDiskSweeper which tells you what files are taking up the most space on your computer. With this program, I was able to delete over 30GB of useless files. My computer can breathe again! All of this is to say that ironically even though this course didn’t require me to be “techy” I ended up having to learn more about how my computer operates because of this course. I now know what a “cache” is. Hooray! 

+ Next, I imported the photos into my computer and then dragged them into Tropy. The first time I imported the photos into Tropy, it didn’t work. All of the photos had an exclamation mark next to them. I could see the photo preview on the main page but when I clicked on them, nothing appeared. So I deleted all of the photos and tried the same thing again. It worked the second time. Funny how technology works! My group decided that we will reconvene once all of our photos are inputted into Tropy.

+ In the meantime, I decided to try customizing my website a little bit. I changed the menu bar from “Posts” to “Devlogs”. Although when I click on Devlogs now at the top of my website, it doesn’t take me to it. I changed it back to Posts as an experiment and that worked again. I’m not sure what the problem is but I decided to keep it as Devlogs. Any thoughts? I also removed the “Publications” section on my website because it isn’t in use right now. I can add it again later when there are publications to put in. 
