---
Title: Wrapping Things Up-Devlog Week 11 and 12
Date: 2020-04-05
---


+ This is my final devlog for the course. My group was able to successfully publish our database on the CARF catalogue cards. This was thanks to the work of Callum and help from the professor to solve the error they were facing. It can be accessed here: 
http://fort-frontenac-excavation.herokuapp.com/CARF/CMH
On this website, information can be sorted by our various metadata (Item Name, Location, Condition, etc.) Over 450 different items are found on this website. I think this is a great step forward for next year’s class to take on the project and continue to add more of the cards on here since we weren’t able to take photos of all of them. 

+ My research has been significantly altered during this time. For another course, I am conducting a project on Ottawa school heritage. I had plans to visit the city archives and Library and Archives Canada the very week our world got turned upside down. While this really limited the amount of research I could access, I still had an abundance of online resources and databases to work with. Doing research entirely using the Internet would have been frankly impossible twenty years ago but everyday, more and more historical and archival materials are being put online. In my last post, I mentioned that we have never been so well equipped to deal with a pandemic as we are today. I think the same could be said about being equipped to do online research. We are fortunate to have resources like digital archives, library databases, Google Scholar, JSTOR, and virtual tours of galleries and museums. A course like this helped me see the value of digital informatics, especially during times like this. 

+ In our last few weeks of class, I think the topics were very fitting to deal with in social isolation. The topics of social media and web archives are all about engaging with people from a distance and online. More than that, it is about creating virtual communities where like-minded people can interact. For example, our reading about Archives Unleashed discusses how community building is one of their top priorities when creating web archives. Similarly, our readings on social media describe how museums are using new and interactive tools to engage with visitors and increase stakeholder interest. I follow quite a few museums on Instagram and Facebook and their social media presence has only increased during this time of social distancing. With their physical doors closed, they are still able to share their collection and expertise with visitors and I think that is great. 
